README.md, before:

# CV. Reviewer and coder.
I read, understand and write code. In my work I use mind, experience, common sense and suitable software.

## Personal information
Name: Kyrylo Fedorov

Email: [kyrylo.fedorov@gmail.com](mailto:kyrylo.fedorov+github.cv@gmail.com)

DoB: August 10, 1977

Citizenship: Ukraine

Residence: Kyiv, Ukraine


## Technical specialization

### javascript
Preferred way, for a past few years and for nearest feature.
Full stack, both, server's with `node.js` and browser's side develop.
Vanilla js and frameworks, such `sails.js` for server and `angular` (version 1.*), backbone, knockout or other for client.
Have experience with using thirds party API or library for resolving specific issues.
I'm follower of TDD and prefer to use `mocha`, `chai` and `sinon` to be sure that I write code complies to wrote unit-test and my commits into VCS will not break builds in CI.
And of course I have some experience with all around:
 - automated build tools: webpack, gulp, grunt;
 - layout with html or different template engines;
 - styling with scss, less and native css;

### database
I have experience with using various database directly or via different ORMs.
Both, *relation database*, like `PostgreSQL`, `MySQL` and *noSQL*, like `MongoDB`. Also, very early, DBMS like `FoxPro`, `Clarion`, etc.
I can read and write native SQL query, and optimizing heavy query. Also have some experience with writing stored procedures.

### php
It's almost background experience, for now I have not plan to code on it again.
Early I work with numbers of services write on PHP, native and with frameworks.
Have experience with tiny framework like `Slim` or `Silex` and with more complex `Symfony`.

### other skills
Have some experience with QA automation, I authoring automated tests using `Selenium` on javascript and java.
Some development'n'operations experience.

## Job history

### 10.2014 - present. Contractor at Reaktivate.
Developer on project "QuickEstate" - service in assistance in estate's executing.
Technologies: `node.js` framework `sails` for back-end, `angular` as framework for client side Single Page Application. Build system `webpack`. Unit-testing with `mocha` and `karma-runner` in CI and in TDD with code coverage. Automation QA based on features description with `gherkin`.

### 11.2013 - 09.2014. Contractor at ECO&Tech.
Functional for project "Wind of Travel" - service for planning travels and sharing significant waypoints.
Technologies: `Leaflet` - javascript library for interactive map, `Symfony` - back-end for manage and processing gpx/kml data.

Participated in project "Main Ukraine" - C2C service for home helpers.
Area of responsibility: business logic on back-end and some front-end issues.
Technologies: `Symfone`, stored procedure in MySQL, Google Maps API.

### 07.2006 - 11.2013 State enterprise "Information Center" Ministry of Justice of Ukraine.
Positions in Information Department web-designer, applications programmer, deputy head of department.
Area of responsibility: development, maintenance and support departmental sites. Took part in development CMS for the Ministry of Justice website. Has developed system and site for Register of certified forensic experts.

### 07.1995 - 06.2006 "The main inter-regional department of statistics in Kyiv" (formerly Main Computer Center of State Statistics Committee of Ukraine).
Various position, up to deputy head of the department.
Responsibilities: development and maintenance of guidelines for software development, database administration.

### 06.1994 - 02.1995 Small Private Enterprise
Database operator.

## Education
Graduated from Kyiv Polytechnic Institute in 2001, Bachelor in Microelectronics.

### Courses
Coursera, [Functional Programming Principles in Scala, 2013](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByYwlFfgl5Z9N3B4WkEtX192b0k/view?usp=sharing).
Coursera, [Learn to Program: Crafting Quality Code, 2013](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByYwlFfgl5Z9NEEtSjBhQ09BdjQ/view?usp=sharing).
10Gen, [M101: MongoDB for Developers, 2012](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByYwlFfgl5Z9LUlRUWR3cVpKa0E/view?usp=sharing).
Numbers of other courses and learning program, continuous study new technologies in main domain of interest and in related scope.

Commit message:

Update on contentmart closing.
Update with latest job recoed.

README.md, after:

# CV. Reviewer and coder.
I read, understand and write code. In my work I use mind, experience, common sense and suitable software.

## Personal information
Name: Kyrylo Fedorov

Email: [kyrylo.fedorov@gmail.com](mailto:kyrylo.fedorov+github.cv@gmail.com)

DoB: August 10, 1977

Citizenship: Ukraine

Residence: Kyiv, Ukraine


## Technical specialization

### javascript
Preferred way, for a past few years and for nearest feature.
For a last two year front-end with React and all around development. 
Early: full stack, both, server's with `node.js` and browser's side develop.
Vanilla js and frameworks, such `sails.js` for server and `angular` (version 1.*), backbone, knockout or other for client.
Have experience with using thirds party API or library for resolving specific issues.
I'm follower of TDD and prefer to use `mocha`, `chai` and `sinon` to be sure that I write code complies to wrote unit-test and my commits into VCS will not break builds in CI.
And of course I have some experience with all around:
 - automated build tools: webpack, gulp, grunt;
 - layout with html or different template engines;
 - styling with scss, less and native css;

### database
I have experience with using various database directly or via different ORMs.
Both, *relation database*, like `PostgreSQL`, `MySQL` and *noSQL*, like `MongoDB`. Also, very early, DBMS like `FoxPro`, `Clarion`, etc.
I can read and write native SQL query, and optimizing heavy query. Also have some experience with writing stored procedures.

### php
It's almost background experience, for now I have not plan to code on it again.
Early I work with numbers of services write on PHP, native and with frameworks.
Have experience with tiny framework like `Slim` or `Silex` and with more complex `Symfony`.

### other skills
Have some experience with QA automation, I authoring automated tests using `Selenium` on javascript and java.
Some development'n'operations experience.

## Job history

### 11.2016 - 08.2018. Fulltime as Contentmart.com
Lead front-end developer on Contentmart.com project - content/copywriting marketplace.
Technologies: `React` UI library, `redux` - application state management library, `react-router` and numbers other React's stack tools and libraries.
Area of responsobility:
- front-end architecture solution, revieing and selecting 3thd party components and libraries;
- setup developemnt environment, e.g. choosing and setup libraries for tooling, linting, testing and build;
- includes builds into CI;
- varios maintance chore;
- code review;
- development exactly, include (not too many) unit testing with wellknow `mocha`, `chai`, `zinon` and specific for React  `enzyme`;
 
### 10.2014 - 10.2016. Contractor at Reaktivate.
Developer on project "QuickEstate" - service in assistance in estate's executing.
Technologies: `node.js` framework `sails` for back-end, `angular` as framework for client side Single Page Application. Build system `webpack`. Unit-testing with `mocha` and `karma-runner` in CI and in TDD with code coverage. Automation QA based on features description with `gherkin`.

### 11.2013 - 09.2014. Contractor at ECO&Tech.
Functional for project "Wind of Travel" - service for planning travels and sharing significant waypoints.
Technologies: `Leaflet` - javascript library for interactive map, `Symfony` - back-end for manage and processing gpx/kml data.

Participated in project "Main Ukraine" - C2C service for home helpers.
Area of responsibility: business logic on back-end and some front-end issues.
Technologies: `Symfone`, stored procedure in MySQL, Google Maps API.

### 07.2006 - 11.2013 State enterprise "Information Center" Ministry of Justice of Ukraine.
Positions in Information Department web-designer, applications programmer, deputy head of department.
Area of responsibility: development, maintenance and support departmental sites. Took part in development CMS for the Ministry of Justice website. Has developed system and site for Register of certified forensic experts.

### 07.1995 - 06.2006 "The main inter-regional department of statistics in Kyiv" (formerly Main Computer Center of State Statistics Committee of Ukraine).
Various position, up to deputy head of the department.
Responsibilities: development and maintenance of guidelines for software development, database administration.

### 06.1994 - 02.1995 Small Private Enterprise
Database operator.

## Education
Graduated from Kyiv Polytechnic Institute in 2001, Bachelor in Microelectronics.

### Courses
Coursera, [Functional Programming Principles in Scala, 2013](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByYwlFfgl5Z9N3B4WkEtX192b0k/view?usp=sharing).
Coursera, [Learn to Program: Crafting Quality Code, 2013](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByYwlFfgl5Z9NEEtSjBhQ09BdjQ/view?usp=sharing).
10Gen, [M101: MongoDB for Developers, 2012](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByYwlFfgl5Z9LUlRUWR3cVpKa0E/view?usp=sharing).
Numbers of other courses and learning program, continuous study new technologies in main domain of interest and in related scope.
